# Continued (Febrary 22, 2021)


- I am currently the lead on a digital humanities project. I have three students working with me.
- I’ve decided to write (at least) weekly about this project between now and the end of term. This timeframe works well, because two of the students will all finish their work on the project within the same time. The other will finish the third week of May.
- I began planning this project last summer (2020), as I had to write a proposal for a co-op student position.
- Initially, my goal for the project was very broad and rather fuzzy: To understand digital humanities well enough to be able to select books for the collection and to do some teaching in the program.
- While a colleague had been responsible for doing providing minimal support--collection development--for two or three years, as yet no one had formally been assigned to support digital humanists so my work would “break new ground.”
- Since 2018, I had been trying to build relationships with the two faculty members most publicly associated with the project--Brian Greenspan in the Department of English and Shawn Graham in the Department of History.
- I was trying to understand both digital humanities and games--both were in my portfolio--and feeling quite overwhelmed and anxious about these responsibilities.
- I had met had a couple of meetings one with Brian and Sarah Thorne (then a PhD student in English) along with some library colleagues. The focus of this first meeting was just digital humanities.
- About a year later (2019), I had another meeting with Brian, Shawn, some library colleagues, and Jenna Stidwill. In this latter meeting, I had both games and digital humanities on the agenda. I had three big takeaways at the end of the conversation: One, I needed to uncouple digital humanities and games--these subjects are quite different; two, I wanted to focus on digital humanities and needed to tell my department head that I could no longer keep games in my portfolio; and three, that I might be able to work with Jenna Stidwill on a project that could help me wrap my head around digital humanities. I already had a sense that it was “a beast with a thousand tentacles,” i.e., are area of scholarly work that was perhaps difficult to define and in which faculty and students were doing a wide variety of scholarly projects.
- Jenna seemed like a perfect research partner. She has a PhD in Cultural Mediations and Brian had been her supervisor, so she already had a much clearer idea of what digital humanities “is.” She’s also a Carleton contract instructor, which means I might be able to teach with her and try out ideas, and she is doing a library science degree, so has an interest in the role that library staff can play in supporting digital humanists.
- I remember feeling optimistic about having someone to work with, particularly because I often feel lonely in my work. And, in the case of digital humanities, I did not have enough of a background in “computing” to feel confident enough to know even where to start with support for digital humanities. And one thing was clear to me: I would need more of a computing background or at least opportunities to work with folks who did and I would have to look outside the library for these folks. Our technical services team is unavailable as is our cataloguing team (which links to being able to run a metadata workshop).
- Jenna and I corresponded by email during 2019 and into 2020 about a proposal for a co-op position for her.
- I had proposed both a literature review as well as some workshop development. The lit review would help me crystallize a definition of digital humanities, which would help with both teaching and collections work, and the workshop development would help me create some preliminary curricula for which I already had some ideas (metadata and coding workshops that would include introductions to a couple of digital content management systems).
- In late 2019/early 2020, I chatted informally with Amber Lannon (then the associate university librarian to whom my department reported) and Gilles Monast, the library administrator. I wanted to have some sense of whether there would be funding for a co-op position (and the price tag was relatively steep at $25,000 for full-time work over two terms). Both indicated that finances were tight, so I wasn’t particularly hopeful.
- However, in April/May, when Amber was confirmed as the new university librarian, she wrote to me almost immediately to let me know that the project had been approved.
- What an amazing vote of confidence! And a bit scary, because now I had to actually do something.
- Although Jenna and I would not start working together formally until September, we started meeting in May. We agreed that we needed to begin thinking about the project as early as possible so that we could “hit the ground running” in the fall.
- In addition, Cass Calow reached out re her Bachelor of Information Technology/Information Research Management (BIT/IRM) practicum. She wanted me (me??) to supervise her, and I knew that, if I agreed to do so, she would have to be part of this larger project.
- By June/July, it was confirmed that I would supervise Cass as well. Although her practicum would not start until January 2021, she started to attend a few meetings with Jenna and me so that she too could start work on the project as soon as her practicum began.
- In the fall term, Jenna and I started meeting twice a week. We began working first on the literature review. I had done scoping reviewing training with our health sciences librarian (Heather MacDonald) in the spring and wanted to try and learn this approach to lit reviews.
- I feel paralyzed, frightened, incompetent, when I think about doing lit reviews. Oh, I can develop a good search strategy and find sources (lots and lots of sources), but I am frightened by the process of identifying patterns and synthesizing the material. These feelings come out of the experience of writing my thesis, where I got no direction on how to do this work, and I haven’t recovered my confidence. In fact, these feelings seem to have seeped into my sense of my ability to writing academically. And I realize that I took on this lit review because somehow, I have to get past this paralysis.
- As an academic librarian, I must “do research,” which means I have to publish. And to do so, I must overcome this mental and emotional block.
- Maybe by working with Jenna (who is clearly a more experienced scholar than I am), I will be able to achieve this much more personal goal: To strengthen my confidence in my own abilities to be a researcher.

[End of log for February 22, 2021]
